replication: add replication state to GetVolumeReplicationInfo response (#77)
csi-addons/spec: replication/README.md

  // This field is OPTIONAL.
  // The value of this field MUST NOT be negative.
  int64 last_sync_bytes = 3;
  // Represents the type of replication status that can be returned
  // by a storage vendor.
  enum Status {

>     // UNKNOWN indicates that the CSI-driver does not support/know
>     // the current replication status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // UNKNOWN indicates that the SP does not know
    // the current replication status.
```

    UNKNOWN = 0;
    // HEALTHY indicates that the replication is working properly.
    HEALTHY = 1;
    // DEGRADED indicates that the replication has stopped working
    // and it may require user intervention.
    DEGRADED = 2;
    // ERROR indicates that there is an error in replication
    // and it may require user intervention.
    ERROR = 3;
  }
  // Represents the current replication status as reported by 
  // the backend storage system.

>   // This field is OPTIONAL.

Reviewer 2: Why is this OPTIONAL? Is the default not `UNKNOWN` so that it can be marked REQUIRED?

Author: If we make it required, then any SP that do not implement this change will by default start seeing the status as `UNKNOWN`, which maybe incorrect if everything is fine.
It would become a breaking change, isn't it?

Reviewer 2: How should the difference between `UNKNOWN` and an unset `.status` be handled? I suspect that both are the same for anyone that inspects the result of the procedure call.

If there is a good reason to differentiate between unset and `UNKNOWN`, I agree that OPTIONAL makes sense.

Author: `UNKNOWN` can be returned if the mirroring is still being enabled, and not yet completed.
Or, if the mirroring state itself is `unknown`, i.e, `up+unknown` in case of ceph rbd.

Author: @nixpanic wdyt regarding the above scenario?

Reviewer 2: It is still not clear to me how users should interpret the difference between the unavailable state, and a `.status=UNKNOWN`.

If users are expected to act differently on unset vs `UNKNOWN`, then the `.status` can be optional.

Otherwise if a status, either `UNKNOWN` or not-implemented, would be the same for the user, then make it required.

A status of `UNKNOWN` returned by the storage provider does not make a difference for the spec. A CSI-driver can select a more suitable status or elaborate the unknown-ness in the optional `.status_message`.

Author: Okay, updated it to to `REQUIRED`, PTAL.

  // This field is OPTIONAL.
  // The value of this field MUST NOT be negative.
  int64 last_sync_bytes = 3;
  // Holds the latest replication state.
  // This field is REQUIRED.

>   string replication_state = 4;

Reviewer 2: This probably should be optional instead of required. If it is a message, maybe call it `status_message` instead, and explain that it is user-facing information.

If something is expected to inspect the contents and act on it, like a _state_, it definitely should be an enum that has values which fit for different storage providers.

Author: > If it is a message, maybe call it status_message instead, and explain that it is user-facing information.

It would be the mirroring status state like `stopped` , `syncing`, `error` `replaying` and so on. I don't think we would want it be a message instead.

> If something is expected to inspect the contents and act on it, like a state, it definitely should be an enum that has values which fit for different storage providers.

Based on the above mentioned value, I am not sure which values to use that make it fit for different storage providers?
Making it generic like `primary`, `secondary`, `unkown` and `error` could be one way

Author: And, then the storage provider is responsible for mapping the respective states for them to the csi-addons spec's state?
Like, for us (ceph's pov) `stopped` to `primary`, `replaying` to `secondary`, `error` to `error` and any other state to `unkown`

Reviewer 2: sounds reasonable, each state should have a description, something along these lines:

0. `unknown` status was not provided
1. `primary` this volume is in a primary state and can be used for writing to
2. `secondary` this volume is actively tracking changes from a primary volume
3. `error` something went wrong, and replication has stopped

The `error` state is probably final, and no automated recovery is possible. Maybe a mis-configuration or environment failure.

In case there is an error state that can be recovered automatically (or retried), such a state should be mentioned separately, maybe something like `split-brain` or `out-of-space`.

Reviewer: @nixpanic IMO we should keep it as string because it will be hard to map this from storage to the csi-addons and also state is more of enum where we have pre defined states .  can we do something like below

```go
// Represents the current replication state as reported by the backend storage system.
//
// This field is optional.
//
// This is a free-form string that conveys the current replication state,
// such as "synchronized", "initializing", "error", "paused", etc.
//
// Storage providers SHOULD use values that make sense within their own ecosystem.
// This field is intended to be displayed to users or for diagnostic purposes,
// and is NOT intended to be used for strict programmatic logic across vendors.
string replication_status = 4;
```

Reviewer 2: Sure, that is basically what I meant with

> ... If it is a message, maybe call it status_message instead, and explain that it is user-facing information.

There is no need to add `replication_` in the name, as the call is `GetVolumeReplicationInfoResponse`.
To me, `status` still sounds like something that can be parsed by non-humans. I therefor prefer `status_message` so that storage providers can phrase something helpful to guide the humans reading it.

Reviewer: +1 for status_message as we need this to be representation only for users for information not the programmatic

Reviewer: We can have status and a message for the very clear status and the more details message as well
```
enum Status {
    UNKNOWN = 0;
    HEALTHY = 1;
    DEGRADED = 2;
    ERROR = 3;
  }

 Status status = 1;
 string status_message = 2
```

Author: Updated the RPC based on the above discussion, please take a look now.
